Variables: Definition and Operationalization

PIDD consists of several medical parameters and one dependent (outcome) parameter of binary values .
This dataset is mainly for female gender and Description of dataset is as following

9 columns with 8 independent parameter and one outcome parameter with uniquely identified 768 observations having 268 positive for diabetes 
(1) and 500 negative for diabetes (0)

1. Pregnancies : Number of times pregnant

2. Glucose: Oral Glucose Tolerance Test result

The glucose tolerance test is a lab test to check how your body moves sugar from the blood into tissues like muscle and fat. 
The test is often used to diagnose diabetes.

How Test was performed

The most common glucose tolerance test is the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Before the test begins, a sample of blood will be taken.
You will then be asked to drink a liquid containing a certain amount of glucose (usually 75 grams). 
Your blood will be taken again every 30 to 60 minutes after you drink the solution.

3. BloodPressure: Diastolic Blood Pressure values in (mm Hg)

The diastolic reading, or the bottom number, is the pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats. 
This is the time when the heart fills with blood and gets oxygen.

This is what your diastolic blood pressure number means:

Normal: Lower than 80
Stage 1 hypertension: 80–89
Stage 2 hypertension: 90 or more
Hypertensive crisis: 120 or more

Most people with diabetes will eventually have high blood pressure.

Source : https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/analyzing-pima-indian-diabetes-dataset-36d02a8a10e5
4. SkinThickness: Triceps skin fold thickness in (mm)

Skinfold thickness, so that a prediction of the total amount of body fat can be made. 
The triceps skinfold is necessary for calculating the upper arm muscle circumference.
Its thickness gives information about the fat reserves of the body, whereas the calculated muscle mass gives information about the protein reserves.
For adults, the standard normal values for triceps skinfolds are 2.5mm (men) or about 20% fat; 18.0mm (women) or about 30% fat. 
Measurement half, or less, of these values represent about the 15th percentile and can be considered as either borderline, or fat depleted. 
Values over 20mm (men) and 30mm (women) represent about the 85th percentile, and can be considered.

5. Insulin: 2-Hour serum insulin (mu U/ml)

Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar, known as glucose, from your bloodstream into your cells.
2-hour Serum Insulin: Greater than 150 mu U/ml relates to insulin therapy
Insulin therapy is a critical part of treatment for people with type 1 diabetes and also for many with type 2 diabetes.
The goal of insulin therapy is to keep your blood sugar levels within a target range.

6. BMI: Body mass index

The Body Mass Index (BMI) provides a simple, yet accurate method of assessing whether a patient is at risk from either over-or-underweight. 
However, a proportionally greater lean body mass and/or skeletal frame size can contribute to apparent excess body weight.
Many athletes, for example would be considered ‘overweight’, yet skin-fold tests show a sub-normal amount of adipose tissue. 
It can easily be calculated by dividing the patient’s weight (kg) by the square of their height (meters).
BMI= weight(kg)/[height(m)]²

7. DiabetesPedigreeFunction: Diabetes pedigree function

Diabetes Pedigree Function, it provided some data on diabetes mellitus history in relatives and the genetic relationship of those relatives to the patient.
This measure of genetic influence gave us an idea of the hereditary risk one might have with the onset of diabetes mellitus.

8. Age: Age in years

9. Outcome: Class 1 indicates person having diabetes and 0 indicates other.
